MISSION STATEMENT

We, at Just For You Childrens's Centre, strive to provide an environment that nutures and educates. Our wish is to provide a stimulating place where children are free to explore their creativity and individuality. Our goal is to foster independence and social and emotional grouth through a play based learning environment. 

We support families by encouraging open communication through an open door policy.

We provide an environment rich in literature, giving plenty of exposure to pre-writing and reading skills.

Our program provides children with hands on experiences with opportunities to explore while learning with emphasis on early literacy, early numeracy, science, social studies and art.

Our materials provide children with the opportunity to learn through play. These will stimulate and challenge, help to develop perception and thinking skills as well as learn concepts and develop fin/gross motor movements.




Policies & Procedures

Our program is open to children from infant to school age. We are open Monday - Friday, 6:45am - 5:30pm all year round. 

Late fees apply after 5:30pm @ $1.00 per minute paid to the Early Childhood Educator waiting with you child.

It is recommended that children not be in care for more than 9 hrs per day.

Parents must sign children in and out every day. If there is an emergency evacuation, we will take the sign in/out book when leaving the centre. This will be an important tool to make sure all children are accounted for and, in the case of other emergencies, we will know by whom and at what time the child was picked up and dropped off. As well as signing you child out, make sure an educator is aware that you are leaving with your child.

If someone other thatn a parent is dropping off or picking up your child, it is nessesary for you to call and tell us whom and at what time.

If another person is picking up your child and is not recognized by the educator that is present, they will be asked to present photo identification and will be required to sign you child out.

We encourage you to establish a routine pick-up as it helps the children establish their daily routines. If you are going to be late, please call us so we can prepare your child for a later departure.

Please call to tell us when your child will be absent; we wait for each child's arrival and are concerned when they do not arrive 

Within the center's leagal rights, children will not be released into a situation in which the educator believes the child is in danger. This includes release to persons suspected to be under the influence of intoxication substances, without the presance of a sober driver or the lack of appropriate seating in a vehicle. In the event of extreme circumstances in which a child is placed in danger, the center has a leagal and ethical responsibility to report persons to the appropriate authorities.



Program Specifics

Many children enjoy bringing toys from home: if your child chooses to bring something, please ensure that it is appropriate, no small pieces, non-violent and sturdy. He/She will be encouraged to share with their peers. If this does not happen it will be put into their baskets until it is time to go home.

-The center is not responsible for the toy, should it be damaged. Early Childhood Educators will not spend time looking for it at the end of the day.

-Certified Yoga Instructor comes to the centre bi-weekly to provide yoga instruction to the children.

-Michael Pendergast, the Music Man comes to the centre for a music session bi-weekly.

-Please dress your children for play. Their clothing should be comfortable, washable and something that you won't mind seeing pasta sauce or paint on.

-The centre will try to protect clothing and prevent damage to items but is not responsible for damage to clothes.

-We play outdoors every day if possible, so outdoor clothing needs to be provided daily, (appropriate for the season of course).

-When purchasing clothing please consider that your child will be encouraged to dress and undress him/herself as much as possible. Please label all clothing. Shoes without laces are recomended.

Please Provide:
1. Indoor footwear.
2. Small lightweight blanket for rest.
3. Complete change of clothes. Labeled to be placed in their basket in the bathroom cupboard.
4. Package of disposable diapers and wipes to be kept here; your child will be changed at the change table according to proper procedure. We will tell you when they need more diapers.
5. 3" binder and sheet covers for the development of your child's individual portfolio.
